Title
How AWS’s Priya Ponnapalli is using AI in Formula 1, NFL, Bundesliga
 
Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/business/india-business/how-awss-priya-ponnapalli-is-using-ai-in-formula-1-nfl-bundesliga/articleshow/80418052.cms
 
Date
Jan 23, 2021, 10:31  IST
 
Text
What’s the probability of a shot going into goal? Which Formula 1 car is best on high-speed corners, which on straights? Which player should a team buy? AI and machine learning (ML) are being used in fascinating ways in sports to help players and sports administrators take better decisions, and to enable broadcasters to offer new and real-time data that enriches the fan experience. In Amazon Web Services (AWS), it's Priya Ponnapalli’s job to enable these solutions. Priya grew up in Hyderabad, did her engineering there, and then went to the University of Texas in Austin for a Master’s and PhD in electrical and computer engineering. She is today principal scientist and senior manager on the Amazon machine learning solutions team. The question, she says, is no longer whether a company should have a ML strategy, but rather how they can quickly and effectively get their ML strategy into motion. “We have been working with some of the largest sports organisations in the world – Formula 1, the US National Football League (NFL), Nascar, Bundesliga and many more. We start with the business problems and work backwards from there to solve it using innovations,” she says. NFL has built ML models using Amazon’s flagship ML service, SageMaker, and its own vast troves of data – images, videos, data from RFID tags on players’ shoulder pads and on the football. Today, those models enable NFL to track complex data on the field, such as the precise X-Y coordinates of a player, speed and movement patterns. Priya says this data helps NFL officiate the game better. “They are also sent to the broadcast booths for additional insights, and are used to enhance the fan experience,” she says. NFL uses AWS to collect ongoing information about players, like their exertion level, their explosive movements, how often they work out, and more. This helps, Priya says, to generate new insights into player injuries, game rules, equipment, rehabilitation and recovery. In F1, each car has some 300 sensors on them generating over 1.1 million data points per second. F1 uses SageMaker to train deep learning models with 70 years of historical race data. And then they use the system to make race predictions, track critical race performance statistics, and give fans insights into split second decisions and strategies adopted by teams and drivers. Each team builds a car with what they see as the ideal mix of grip, downforce, drag and power. And so each car has its own strengths and weaknesses. On F1’s TV coverage, the ML system creates car performance scores graphics based on the numerous data points it captures – how each car performs in different kinds of corners, on straights, how much it understeers, oversteers. For the German football league Bundesliga, models have been created that can precisely determine what is the goal probability of different kinds of shots. The ML algorithm has been trained on shots on goal, looking at distance and angles of goals, position of opposition defenders, goalkeeper’s position, the speed of the player at the moment he shoots. So, split seconds before a goal, the model can tell fans the probability of a goal. “As we get more data, models improve,” says Priya. Even then, what they provide are likelihoods and probabilities. There will be these fantastic matches which no model can predict. The athletes, Priya says, are the superstars. 
 
