Title
As vaccine diplomacy continues, government says no request from Pakistan yet
 
Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/as-vaccine-diplomacy-continues-government-says-no-request-from-pakistan-yet/articleshow/80415714.cms
 
Date
Jan 23, 2021, 12:19  IST
 
Text
NEW DELHI: Faced with queries about whether India would consider supplying Covid-19 vaccine to Pakistan, the government on Friday said it had not received any request from Islamabad for vaccine. India has so far donated Covishield vaccine to Bangladesh, Nepal, Myanmar, Bhutan and the Maldives in the immediate neighbourhood and is awaiting confirmation of regulatory clearances from Afghanistan and Sri Lanka to deliver the same as grant assistance to them.   “I am not aware of any request for the supply of India-made vaccines to Pakistan on a G2G basis or commercial basis. The other part of the question is hypothetical at this stage and I would not like to respond,” said MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava, when asked if India could consider donating vaccine to Pakistan as well. China has so far committed 500,000 doses of its Sinopharm vaccine for Pakistan. India begins Covid-19 vaccine exports to Brazil, Saudi ArabiaThe official said that keeping in view the domestic requirements of the phased rollout of Covid-19 vaccines, India will continue to supply the same to partner countries over the coming weeks and months in a phased manner. “It will be ensured that domestic manufacturers will have adequate stocks to meet domestic requirements while supplying abroad,” he said, adding that contractual supplies are also being undertaken to Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Brazil, Morocco, Bangladesh and Myanmar. Vaccination drive: India’s one million shots in 6 days is world’s fastest rolloutOn the issue of quantity and types of vaccine being supplied, the government said supplies would be based on availability and regulatory approvals in the countries concerned. Brazil President J M Bolsonaro thanked PM Narendra Modi for the vaccine in a tweet. “Namaskar, Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Brazil feels honoured to have a great partner to overcome a global obstacle by joining efforts. Thank you for assisting us with the vaccines exports from India to Brazil. Dhanyavaad,” he tweeted. 
 
