Title
9th round of India-China military talks today over Ladakh stand-off
 
Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/9th-round-of-india-china-military-talks-today-over-ladakh-stand-off/articleshow/80426280.cms
 
Date
Jan 24, 2021, 01:17  IST
 
Text
NEW DELHI:India will hold the ninth round of military talks with China on Sunday in yet another bid to break the deadlock over tense troop confrontation in eastern Ladakh, even as it maintains high operational readiness to prevent the Chinese Army from opening new fronts in other areas like Arunachal Pradesh. The Indian delegation led by 14 Corps commander Lt-General P G K Menon, including a joint secretary from the external affairs ministry, is scheduled to cross over into Chinese territory at the Chushul-Moldo border point at 9.30 am on Sunday for the dialogue. The “focus” of the talks, which comes over two months after the eighth round on November 6, will be on “disengaging” from the virtually eyeball-to-eyeball stand-off at Pangong Tso, Chushul and Gogra-Hotsprings areas of eastern Ladakh since early-May, said sources on Saturday. “Both sides have repeatedly stressed the need for disengagement and de-escalation. But no progress has been made till now. The modalities, sequencing of steps and the joint verification mechanism, apart from the distance of pullback in the `Finger’ area on the north bank of Pangong Tso, have remained the stumbling blocks. Let’s see how it goes,” said a source. There is also disquiet at the way China has continued to relentlessly build military infrastructure all along the 3,488-km Line of Actual Control in terms of new roads, surface-to-air missile positions, helipads, bunkers and shelters, while also establishing a few civilian settlements in “disputed but occupied areas” in the eastern sector. “The military infrastructure upgrade, which is sometimes disguised as civilian facilities, has gone up substantially since the Ladakh confrontation began in early-May. It clearly indicates the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) is likely to step-up activity once the winter begins to recede from March-April onwards,” said another source. The new as well as reinforced PLA military positions are spread from opposite the Daulat Beg Oldie-Depsang, Chushul and Demchok areas in eastern Ladakh, Kaurik Pass in Himachal Pradesh and Barahoti Plains in Uttarakhand to north Doklam near the Sikkim-Bhutan-Tibet tri-junction and the Asaphila and“Fish Tail” areas in Arunachal Pradesh. Moreover, additional facilities have also been constructed at the Chinese airbases facing India like Hotan, Kashgar, Gargunsa (Ngari Gunsa), Lhasa-Gonggar and Shigatse, which includes underground hangers and parking bays for fighters by digging tunnels into mountains in some areas, as was earlier reported by TOI. The debilitating winter in eastern Ladakh, with polar temperatures and oxygen deprivation, did lead India and China to progressively de-induct around 10,000 soldiers each from their “depth areas” but there has been no pullback of troops, tanks and howitzers from the front-lines. The eighth military round on November 6 had raised hopes of a de-escalation, with India and China broadly agreeing to a mutual withdrawal from the “friction points” in eastern Ladakh. But the sequencing of steps could not be finalised. China wants the disengagement to begin from the south bank of Pangong Tso-Chushul area, where Indian troops are in tactically-advantageous positions on the ridge-line stretching from Thakung to Gurung Hill, Spanggur Gap, Magar Hill, Mukhpari, Rezang La and Reqin La (Rechin mountain pass) since August 29-30. India, in turn, wants it to kick-off from the north bank of Pangong Tso, where the PLA has physically occupied the 8-km stretch from `Finger 4 to 8’ (mountainous spurs) since early-May. 
 
