Title
File signed by Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray tampered with
 
Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/file-signed-by-maharashtra-chief-minister-uddhav-thackeray-tampered-with/articleshow/80428495.cms
 
Date
Jan 24, 2021, 01:26  IST
 
Text
MUMBAI: In a case that points to a serious breach within the state headquarters Mantralaya, a file with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s signature was tampered with to scuttle a probe. A case of cheating and forgery has been registered at Marine Drive police station. Thackeray had signed a file to endorse a departmental inquiry against a PWD superintending engineer. However, a forged remark was later written in red ink above his signature, saying that the inquiry should be closed. “An FIR has been registered against unknown persons and investigations are on,” said DCP Zone 1 Shashikumar Meena. The unprecedented case has caused a major stir in the Mantralaya. “The chief minister’s signature is sacrosanct and very powerful. It is the final assent on key decisions which have been scrutinised by senior officers and the department’s minister,” said a senior bureaucrat. “Once the chief minister gives his signature, funds worth crores can be released. Tampering with a file signed by the chief minister has major implications.” In this case, the former BJP-led government had recommended a departmental inquiry against several PWD engineers for alleged financial irregularities in work done at the JJ School of Art building a few years ago, sources said. Among those to be probed was then executive engineer Nana Pawar who is now a superintending engineer. After the MVA government came to power, PWD minister Ashok Chavan endorsed the probe and it was sent to the chief minister’s office for his assent. However, when the file was returned to the PWD department, Chavan was surprised to find that the chief minister had made changes in the department’s proposal, senior PWD sources said. While the departmental inquiry against the other engineers was to continue, that against Nana Pawar was to be dropped. Chavan became suspicious when he saw that the remark above Thackeray’s signature was squeezed into a narrow gap. “Typically, when you make a remark and sign below it, there is enough space for the remark to fit,” said a senior PWD officer. Chavan sent the file to Thackeray’s office to cross-check. “Thackeray’s office keeps scanned copies of all documents that he signs. They found that the document he had signed did not have this remark. So, Thackeray had only signed the file to give a go-ahead for the inquiry. That is how the forgery was discovered,” said another senior PWD officer. When contacted by TOI, Chavan declined comment on the case. Senior bureaucrats say they cannot recall an incident like this in the past. “It is an extremely audacious act. There have been some episodes in the past when file notings made by officers have been changed, which is why we keep copies of key decisions. But overwriting and forgery of the chief minister’s assent is something we have not seen before,” said an officer. Typically, when there is a difference of opinion on an issue on which the chief minister has taken a view, the file is re-routed to him with suggestions. In 2018, the file noting of the BMC chief was changed regarding a plot of land at Jogeshwari east, worth ?500 crore, leading to arrests. The high court had held that the reservation on the plot had lapsed and the owners were free to develop the property. Then BMC chief Ajoy Mehta had written that the decision should be challenged in Supreme Court but the noting was changed to say that it should not be challenged. 
 
