Title
In a 1st, Bangladesh troops to march on Rajpath on R-Day, thank India for 1971 help
 
Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/in-a-1st-bangladesh-troops-to-march-on-rajpath-on-r-day-thank-india-for-1971-help/articleshow/80427054.cms
 
Date
Jan 24, 2021, 00:15  IST
 
Text
NEW DELHI: When the 122 personnel of the Bangladesh armed forces will be marching on Rajpath alongside their Indian counterparts on January 26, they will not only feel proud to be participating in India’s Republic Day parade for the first time but will also be “expressing gratitude and respects to all those Indian military personnel who sacrificed their lives for the liberation of our country”. Talking to TOI after the full-day parade rehearsal on Saturday, Bangladesh Army Colonel Mohtashim Hyder Chowdhury, who is heading the contingent, said, “It’s a great honour for us to become part of India’s 72nd Republic Day parade. Most of the parade personnel are from those Bangladesh units that were raised during the 1971 Liberation War. In fact, we are very fortunate to be part of the parade of “our friend” India at a time when our country is celebrating 2020-21 year as the birth centenary of our father of nation, Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, and also the 50th year of Bangladesh’s independence.” Col Chowdhury, an infantry officer with 26 years of service, said, “There will be two contingents, one marching contingent and one military band. The military contingent will comprise personnel from three services and will be led by a flight lieutenant, navy lieutenant, one Major and 3 Lt Colonels and there are a few reserves.” This will be the third time India will be hosting a foreign contingent to participate in the parade after the French troops in 2016 and the UAE personnel in 2017. Chief of staff (Delhi area) Major General Alok Kacker, who is also the parade second-in-command, told TOI that it “is a proud and emotional moment for me as well as I welcome the Bangladesh contingent. This is because my father, Brig P N Kacker (SC, VSM) commanded the second battalion in 9 Gorkha Rifles that fought in the Bangladesh war. In fact, his battalion fought pitched battles against Pakistani troops and crossed the Madhumati river for which his unit later won a battle honour ('Kamarkhali'). I feel proud to be a second-generation officer from the same unit.” On difficulties faced while travelling to a foreign country amid the pandemic, Col Chowdhury said, “Due to Covid restrictions, we have to stay in quarantine for some days after landing in India on January 12 and thereafter we all have undergone Covid tests. For the last few days, we have been practising as the (cold) weather in Delhi is different from that of our country. We are not venturing out much from our hotel so as to remain isolated and fit for the parade,” he said. A Bangladesh Army doctor is also accompanying the contingent to provide medical support. 
 
