Title
Mum on CAA, PM Modi projects BJP as protector of Assam’s locals
 
Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/mum-on-caa-pm-modi-projects-bjp-as-protector-of-assams-locals/articleshow/80428759.cms
 
Date
Jan 24, 2021, 01:37  IST
 
Text
GUWAHATI: PM Narendra Modi on Saturday projected BJP as the sole protector of the ‘mul niwasi’ (indigenous inhabitants) of Assam as he doled out ‘pattas’ to landless people at the historic Sivasagar — the heart of protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act in December 2019. In what can be construed an attempt to mollify the natives after they demonstrated their anger against CAA — which grants citizenship to more migrants, though non-Muslims, from Bangladesh — being thrust on them, Modi reached out to 70-odd indigenous communities from the carefully selected venue at Sivasagar, the foundation ground of the greater Assamese community under the Ahom dynasty. “Today, special emphasis is being given to preserving the language and culture of the original inhabitants of Assam as well as securing their land rights. The new land policy made in 2019 shows the commitment of the government. As a result of these efforts, more than 2.5 lakh indigenous families have been given land leases in the past years. Now, more than 1 lakh families will be added to it. The goal is to ensure that every such family in Assam should get legal land rights as soon as possible,” said Modi. While Modi refrained from referring to CAA or implementation of Clause 6 of the Assam Accord, the All Assam Students Union and 12 other outfits staged mass protests across the state during the day. Aasu chief advisor Samujjal Bhattacharya said, “How can the PM remain silent on core issues... one the hand he says that the BJP government is the sole protector of the interest of the indigenous people, on the other hand his government is imposing CAA.” Modi said giving land ownership has not just met the demand of the indigenous people but also paved the way for improving the standard of living of landless famers. “Now, these families will also join lakhs of farmer families to whom thousands of rupees are being sent directly to their bank accounts under the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi. They will also get benefits of Kisan Credit Card, crop insurance and other schemes, and will be able to get loans easily from banks on this land for their trade,” he added. Using the history of the venue of the meeting — Jerenga Pathar, which is connected to the supreme sacrifice of Joymati to save her husband and heir to Ahom throne — Modi said that on this day, the three symbols of ‘self-respect, independence and security’ were also being met. 
 
