Title
Opposition may seek JPC probe into ‘leak’ of military secrets to Arnab Goswami
 
Link
https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/opposition-may-seek-jpc-probe-into-leak-of-military-secrets-to-arnab-goswami/articleshow/80428770.cms
 
Date
Jan 24, 2021, 01:42  IST
 
Text
NEW DELHI: Congress-led opposition is likely to turn the heat on the government over the Arnab Goswami WhatsApp chats issue in the coming budget session of Parliament by demanding a time-bound Joint Parliamentary Committee probe into the alleged leak of military secrets. While the budget sessions was always going to be a stormy affair with the joint opposition planning to corner the government over the farm laws and India’s coronavirus management strategy, Mumbai Police’s sensational revelations last week, pertaining to WhatsApp conversations between Arnab and former BARC chief Partho Dasgupta, have added a new flashpoint between the opposition and treasury benches. Congress’ line of attack has already been sketched by party president Sonia Gandhi, who has the support of NCP and Shiv Sena, apart from Trinamool Congress and the Left parties — CPM and CPI — both of whom have already demanded that the government come clean on the matter. At the CWC meeting, while Sonia called the government’s silence “deafening”, she also said, “Those who give certificates of patriotism and nationalism to others now stand totally exposed.” Congress has already fielded a raft of party veterans, part of UPA’s cabinet committee on security, to highlight the seriousness of the issues revealed in the WhatsApp conversations. Former defence minister AK Antony had asserted that the leak of sensitive military operations, as shown in the WhatsApp chats, was an “act of treason” that “deserved no mercy”. The Congress Working Committee, of which Antony is a part, also passed a resolution expressing “grave concern” over the “sordid conversations that have undoubtedly compromised national security”, and the PM and government’s silence in the hope that the “storm will pass”. “Their silence underlines their collusion, complicity and guilt… The CWC demands a time-bound investigation by a JPC to enquire into the breach of national security, violations of the Official Secrets Act and the role of the persons involved. Ultimately, those who are guilty of treasonous behaviour must be brought before the law and punished,” the resolution said. 
 
